---
layout: post
title: "Project 42195: Training for the first marathon"
description: ""
category: sports 
tags: [running, training]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Running a marathon has been on my list for quite a while now. The past
1.5 years I did focus on learning Sambo (russian martial arts). But I
just did sign up for the Frankfurt Marathon in Octobre.

## What are the goals?

The primary goal is to finish. That's it! In general this probably
should be the only goal for a first marathon. However since I did very
well in over fullfilling my self set goals recently, I will aim at a
finish time below 4h.

## Where am I?

Due to the Sambo training I did not have a dedicated endurance training.
However, as I am into mountainbiking, running and endurance since the
age of 14, I have a good fundament to build on. Grundlagenausdauer
should not be a big deal.

The important thing when going for long distance runs is to train you
joints and the whole Bewegungsapparat to deal with the Belastung. This
requires time and a training with a well controlled progression.
Especially if endurance is not your limiting factor, you have to be
cautious not to increase the run duration/distance too quickly.
Otherwise you might fail or even ruin your health.

So I really consider this as my limiting factor which has to be
overcome. Currently my weight is 78-79kg. That's not very athletic, but
it is not that bad. Of course reducing weight would help to AUSHALTEN
BELASTUNG.

Currently I do half marathons once a week and finish them in slightly
under 2h. My longest run so far was 31km, but that was 2.5 years ago.

## How to do it?

I am going to implement to training with a well controlled progression
in run distance. I will do three training per week. A fourth unit would
be great, but it I have to much time investment in other stuff.

There is nothing special to my applied training methods. Just a basic
endurance training you can read about everywhere on the net. I will
focus on long distance, which means rather low speed and heart rates
below 80% of Hfmax. Continuity of the training is what I consider the
key to success here.

Regarding a weight reduction of around 2-3kg: I am going to have an eye
on what I eat. Although I had very good experience with a simple low
carb diet, I will not do this during my marathon preparation. I dont
want to risk a MANGEL during a sophisticated training series. And
reducing weight is not that important. I will
just pay attention to eat healthy, not too much and skip the things we
all are aware of, that we should not eat them. ;)

So I will do two 15km units during the week and a longer unit at the
weekend. Right now I am at half marathon distance for the long run. This
will be extended to 42.195km. This means extending this unit by ~4.7km
per month.

By the end of August I would like to run 34km on the weekend training.
Average pace should be max. 6min/km. If everything goes well I, will
continue with that progression and get to the marathon distance in Octobre.

That's the theory! I will keep you posted about how well I am doing in
practice. ;)
